---
layout:     default
title:      Class Email
date:       2013-08-24 19:15:22
categories: printing-code
---

Dear Class,

First of all, I'm very much looking forward to our first class this Thursday. "Programming Design Systems" is a class that was created to investigate the intersection between graphic design and code, through the creation of so-called graphic design systems. This means that you will need to bring both a desire to work hard on the programming assignments, and an interest in leading the in-class discussions around the weekly readings. This is a class about the art of computer programming, and we will treat “art” and “programming” equally, and as two sides of the same coin. As the class has evolved over the last couple of years, it has also become a way for me to talk a bit about the importance of rules and constraints in artistic expression.

If none of that makes sense, it hopefully will soon. Before we start, here's a few things to keep in mind:

- This is a class where we present both code and product, and during presentations you will have to account for the code that produced your visuals. Hopefully this will teach you a ton about programming, make you write clean code, and keep the “copy / paste / tweak” mentality away.

- You will not need to have your laptops open in this class, as I will post slides and example code on the class webpage after every class. If you do wish to take notes on your laptop, please let me know beforehand.

- Please don't be late to class. I will start the class at 9:30, and I expect you all to be there on time.

- Finally, here’s the link to the class website: http://www.runemadsen.com/printing-code. On the website you will find the syllabus, along with lecture notes for the classes. I'm updating a lot of this as we go along, but feel free to browse through it all.

As you can see in the syllabus, I would like you to read 3 (very) short texts before the first class. Please read them, and spend a minute thinking about why I assigned these texts.

See you soon.

- Rune
