---
layout:     default
title:      Reading Questions
date:       2013-08-24 19:15:22
categories: printing-code
---

Reading Questions
=================

Random thoughts and notes on the texts...

Form + Content by Paul Rand
---------------------------

Even though it sounds too simple, I think this text highlights a very important fact: Design is the combination of form and content. We need both. Too much form becomes abstract. Too much content becomes unreadable. Design does simply not start with wanting to make something pretty. It starts with an onion of content that you peel, chop and reorganize. Don't forget that content is the driving force to influence your decisions around form.


<blockquote>
There is no such thing as formlessness. Form and content are interactive; they are mutually dependent ... there is good form and there is bad form. One cannot speak of form without implying value.
</blockquote>

You cannot have content without form. By communicating something, you're crafting a message, so you might as well make it matter.

<blockquote>
In painting and sculpture, as well as in architecture and design, problems of form have always been the same. Proportion is proportion; order, order. The effects of color are not dependent on the medium, nor are the effects of scale, economy of means, harmony, rhythm, or even subject matter. Form is without bias. It is not based on time, place nationality, school, or style.
</blockquote>

The basics of design are very objective. 

<blockquote>
In art there are perceptions, opinions, speculations, and interpretation, but no proof. This is both its mystery and magic.
</blockquote>

However, trust your gut. There is no formula for design, becauese every problem is unique. I used to spend hours googling for inspiration for new designs, until I realized that it was preventing me from thinking.


Software Structures by Casey Reas
---------------------------------

<blockquote>
In the past year I have begun removing code from the process of creation.
</blockquote>

We should not operate in a space where we think in strings and integers. We are not doing code for code's sake. But we're interested in the instruction as a way to create. For Reas and Lewitt, the design is not as important as the meta-design. The system behind the design. A finished sculpture is not as important as the number of sculptures the system can create.

<blockquote>
Lewitt continually emphasizes the separation between a drawing and its realization
</blockquote>

Design and meta-design.


Computers, Pencils, and Brushes by Paul Rand
--------------------------------------------

I always assign this text as one of the first readings of this class, because it holds a lot of meaning to me. First of all, I adore Paul Rand, but I couldn't disagree more with his conclusions in this text. I agree that thinking is hugely important, and designers should not be dictated by their tool. However, the tool is important, it has limits, which is true for both computers and pencils. That's a positive thing.

A side note here is that you shouldn't see the world in black and white. Smart people are sometimes wrong, and people you disagree with can prove meaningful in your development as a designer. Beware of design fundamentalism.


Conversations With Students by Paul Rand
----------------------------------------

The reason why I assigned this text is because it gives a good description of how important the manipulation of form is in graphic design, and the problems that arise from it. It's all about relationships. Form and content.

* In the foreword, Wolfgang Weingart says that "Rand was for me one of the strongest, most important warning voices about the future of design". Was does he mean?

* What does Rand mean with "design is relationships"
* Name a specific example of a relationship from your assignment this week?
* Did any of you treat that relationship in code? Dynamically?
* Rand talks about decoration vs. design. What does he mean?

* Is there anything Paul Rand says that relates to code and algorithms?
* Find specific passages and ask: If you should, how would you code this?


Hackers and Painters by Paul Graham
----------------------------------

* Good description of being an implementor vs. a creative programmer. Many companies think like this
* Do you understand the concept of a static vs. dynamic programming language?
* I love the story about DaVinci painting the leaves. He was relentless. The unseen matters! Great software makes great products.
* Programs are for humans to read


Design and the Play Instinct by Paul Rand
------------------------------------------

* Now you know why I give constraints in assignments
* Think about this in your Olivetti assignment. What was the designer trying to communicate? Investigate!
* Modulor! Le Corbusier was crazy, but it's an interesting way of contraining your own work
* The last pages have a great catalog of different way of constraining your work. It can be the source of many, many projects.